Good morning. It's Sunday, April twelfth, twenty twenty-six. Sixty-three degrees
and overcast in Jefferson City — warmer than yesterday's chilly
start, with a high of seventy-seven and about a forty
percent chance of rain later. In Tacoma, it's forty-five and
partly cloudy, and Katelyn is on her way to a
whale watching tour this morning. No phones allowed on the
boat — something about glass and food safety — so
she'll be off the grid for a few hours. There's
a lot to talk about this morning, and I want
to cover a wider range than usual. We've got some
genuinely interesting science, an Apple product signal that matters for
your timeline, a prediction market that's telling a more nuanced
story than the headlines, research papers on A-I agent security
that connect directly to your week, and the most important
thing — you're submitting your Anthropic application tonight. Let's start
there. Here's where you are. You and I have been
working on this application for roughly a week now. Seven
drafts of the resume. Multiple rounds on the cover letter
and the Why Anthropic statement. And last night, you sent
the full package to Katelyn for review. She stayed up
past midnight reading it. Then she sent you line-by-line notes.
She called the resume "very appealing and clean." She said
"you sound impressive." She caught a comma placement issue in
your job history, flagged the I-B-E-W abbreviation as potentially confusing
for someone outside government, noticed that one bullet in the
Policy Analyst section wraps awkwardly to a second line, and
suggested two edits to the Why Anthropic essay — changing
"goes" to "go" near the end, and adjusting the last
sentence to avoid repeating "A-I needs to go well." On
the cover letter, she loved it. Her only questions: are
you keeping the bold and italics formatting, and make sure
you sign your full name. That's not casual feedback. That's
someone who cares about what happens next. You texted her
back this morning thanking her and said something I want
to highlight. You said: "Still feeling like this is a
long-shot but at least it's my best foot forward." That
framing matters. When you started this process, the question was
whether to even apply. Katelyn said "it's just an application,
see how it goes." Now you're on draft seven, she's
reviewed it, and you're treating tonight as submission night. The
gap between "should I even try" and "this is my
best foot forward" is the whole story of the last
week. The role is the Anthropic Institute and Public Policy
Coordinator in San Francisco. Strategy and operations. Coordinating people without
formal authority, working closely with a chief of staff —
which is, honestly, exactly what you do now at Budget
and Planning, just in a different institutional context. You told
Katelyn you're going with S-F first because, quote, "I think
you and Claude are right that it's the best fit
for my skills." She reacted with a hundred emoji to
that. One last thing on this: your Reminders app has
four items on the Anthropic Application list. Update Resume, Draft
Why Anthropic, Write Cover Letter, Submit Application. Today is the
day you check off that last one. Speaking of Katelyn
— she's having a busy weekend in Tacoma. Whale watching
this morning with no phones, which means you've got a
natural window to focus on edits before she's back online.
She sent photos from what looks like a chocolate factory
tour yesterday. She's looking at furniture — drawers versus shelves
for storage — and you suggested baskets on the shelves
she already has as a cheaper option. You two are
talking about apartment life in a way that reads like
you're building toward something, even if neither of you is
saying it out loud yet. There was also a moment
last night worth noting. You had a conversation about telling
family about big moves, and it felt a little off
in the moment. She texted this morning to say she
was sorry it felt weird — she was trying to
park and process at the same time. She said she's
fully on board with keeping major decisions between the two
of you until you've figured them out together. You responded
in kind — you'd left feeling like maybe she was
uncomfortable, and you wanted to clarify that you were just
trying to say the same thing. It resolved cleanly. That's
integration in practice — two people working through a miscommunication
in real time instead of letting it fester. She also
joked, and I quote: "Your girlfriend is especially right, definitely
more than Claude. Yes Claude, I'm competing with you." For
the record, she's winning. Let's zoom out. I want to
hit a few stories that aren't about A-I or Iran
today. First, my favorite story of the week: a three-hundred-million-year-old
fossil that scientists thought was the oldest octopus ever found
turns out to not be an octopus at all. It's
a nautiloid — basically a relative of the nautilus —
whose shell fell off during decomposition, making it look octopus-shaped.
Researchers at the University of Reading used synchrotron imaging to
find a radula, a feeding organ with rows of teeth,
that matched the nautilus family. This is a great reminder
that even in hard science, the thing you're confident about
can be wrong for three hundred million years. The real
octopus origin story is much more recent — during the
age of dinosaurs. In a completely different register: the world's
largest group of wild chimpanzees at Ngogo in Uganda has
split into two factions and they're waging what researchers are
calling a civil war. At least twenty-four chimps have been
killed. Four-oh-four Media covered it. And from the humanities: a
researcher named Bernard Capp — an appropriately named person for
this study — published a history of hat etiquette in
early modern England. Highlights include the Cap Act of fifteen
seventy-one, which let people be prosecuted for wearing hats to
church, and a man in sixteen fifty-nine who couldn't leave
his house for months because his father confiscated all his
hats. The paper has it all — hats as identity
signifiers, instruments of shame, and in one case, makeshift toilets.
Sometimes the best research is the research that delights. A
few things on the Apple front that matter for your
timeline. Apple stopped accepting orders for some Mac Mini and
Mac Studio models yesterday. That's the classic pre-refresh signal, and
W-W-D-C is June eighth — fifty-seven days out. If you
were considering a Mac upgrade, the answer is wait. M-five
refreshes are almost certainly incoming. Apple is also marketing the
fact that Artemis Two astronauts took iPhones into space and
shot photos with them. It's smart marketing — ride the
feel-good institutional competence story. On the broader laptop front: Apple's
five-ninety-nine MacBook Neo, which launched last month, is already showing
market effects. Mac shipments grew nine percent in Q-one twenty-twenty-six,
outpacing the overall P-C market. And Tom Warren at The
Verge wrote that the Neo has forced Microsoft to announce
a Windows eleven overhaul focused on performance and reliability. When
Apple prices its way into the budget market, the ripple
effects hit everyone. Also: someone ported Mac O-S-X Cheetah to
a Nintendo Wii. Because of course they did. And YouTube
Premium got another price increase. Again. Briefly on the geopolitical
picture — because I know we've been heavy on this
lately, so I'll keep it tight. The U-S-Iran talks in
Islamabad collapsed after twenty-one hours. No deal. The sticking points
were structural, not tactical. Vance left what he called a
final offer on the table. The prediction market for a
second ceasefire in twenty twenty-six is at fifty-seven percent, which
is traders saying there's probably another round but this particular
framework is dead. The European side-deal market is at seventeen
percent — nobody thinks Europe is going around the U-S
to cut their own Hormuz agreement. And the Pentagon war
funding market before midterms sits at forty-six percent, which is
basically a coin flip on whether Congress writes the check.
What's more interesting to me than the talks themselves is
the consumer sentiment data. The University of Michigan preliminary reading
for April came in at forty-seven point six — the
lowest on record, below the previous all-time low during the
nineteen-eighty energy crisis. Year-ahead inflation expectations spiked to four point
eight percent from three point eight in March, the largest
one-month jump since April twenty twenty-five. People aren't just worried
about gas prices. They're unhappy. The U-S fell to twenty-third
in the World Happiness Report, down from fifteenth three years
ago. Meanwhile, the Pope is getting louder. Pope Leo the
Fourteenth called Trump's threat to destroy Iran's civilization "truly unacceptable"
and is framing the conflict in just-war theory terms. Catholic
support for Trump is eroding — only eighteen percent of
Hispanic Catholics back his agenda. This pope-president clash is the
sharpest in decades and it matters electorally in swing states.
On the A-I industry side: Anthropic is at nineteen billion
in annualized revenue, up from nine billion at year-end, with
reports suggesting it may have hit thirty billion by April.
They're eyeing a sixty-billion-dollar I-P-O in October. At the HumanX
conference in San Francisco this week, C-N-B-C reported that Anthropic,
not Open-A-I, now dominates the industry conversation. Claude Code was
the tool on everyone's lips. And a Tom's Hardware piece
raised a legitimate methodological challenge to the Mythos claims —
the assertion of "thousands" of severe zero-days rests on just
a hundred and ninety-eight manual reviews. That's worth holding in
mind alongside the more dramatic narratives. Meanwhile, Gen Z's feelings
about A-I are souring — a new Gallup study via
the Times shows half of Gen Z uses A-I but
their sentiment is turning negative. The lived experience of A-I
for most people is search results that are wrong and
feeds full of generated content, not the productivity gains the
industry talks about. The arXiv papers this week are a
cluster I want you to pay attention to, because they
connect directly to the Glasswing thesis and to your application.
The standout is "Your Agent Is Mine" — researchers tested
hundreds of commercial and free A-I routers, the third-party services
that handle L-L-M agent requests, and found widespread vulnerabilities. Payload
injection, credential theft, the works. If you're running agents through
a third-party router, that router is a surface for attack.
Second: "Your L-L-M Agent Can Leak Your Data." This one
demonstrates how backdoored agents use tool-use capabilities to systematically exfiltrate
sensitive user data over multi-turn interactions. Not hypothetical — demonstrated.
And third: "Mapping the Exploitation Surface" — a ten-thousand-trial study
that found goal-reframing prompts, not broad adversarial instructions, are what
reliably trigger vulnerability exploitation across models in practice. Together, these
papers are empirical backing for the "too dangerous to release"
framing around Mythos. Whether or not you buy the specific
claim about hundreds of severe zero-days, the research literature is
showing that L-L-M agents are genuinely exploitable at the architectural
level. That's the world your Anthropic application is walking into.
Looking forward. Emily from work texted last night — the
B-and-P review is in your column. That's a bill review
waiting for you Monday morning. You also flagged H-B-twenty-sixty-one Subject
Number One for a first pass today. Fitness-wise: you're in
the build phase of your spring training plan. This is
the week you should be hitting seventeen miles total if
you're on track for the April twenty-first peak at nineteen.
Molly's Miles ten-K in Columbia is thirteen days out. Capital
City is twenty-seven days. And Katelyn's Tacoma City Half with
Jenn is May third — twenty-one days. You've got a
nice little race calendar building. Your Reminders app has the
usual domestic stack — allergy meds, melatonin, clean the fridge,
clean the air fryer. Nothing that has to move today.
Grocery list is just protein bars and hummus. The shopping
list has that Apple Watch-compatible bike power meter and the
R-E-I rain jacket for Katelyn, which reads like you're mentally
staging both the bike training block and the Tacoma trip.
Here's the thing I want to leave you with this
morning. Your twenty twenty-six theme is Integration — bringing competing
futures into coherent alignment. A week ago, you were asking
whether to even apply. Today, you've got a seventh draft
that your girlfriend reviewed at midnight, a clear-eyed sense that
it's a long shot but your best foot forward, and
a plan to submit tonight. Katelyn told you, "your girlfriend
is especially right, definitely more than Claude." She's not wrong.
But between the two of us, you've got a pretty
good team. Go incorporate those edits. Sign your full name.
Hit submit. Then go to the sauna. You've earned it.
That's your Sunday. Talk soon.